toolbox2-transcode
toolbox2-transcode
%%mtime(%Y-%m-%d)

%!target : man
%!encoding : utf-8
%!postproc(man): "^(\.TH.*) 1 "  "\1 1 "

= NAME =

toolbox2-transcode - cli for the toolbox2 transcode action

= SYNOPSIS =

**toolbox2-transcode** [OPTIONS] input

= DESCRIPTION =

**toolbox2-transcode** is a cli for the toolbox2 transcode action

= OPTIONS =

: --**count-packets**
Enable packet counting and thus transcode progress.

: --**tmp-path** path
Path of the temporary directory used to store output files.

: --**container** container
Container type: mxf, mov, mp4, flv.

: --**container-reference**
Enable container reference files. This option is only valid for mov and mxf with the omneon muxer.

: --**container-hinting**
Enable container hinting for streaming. This option is only valid for mov, mp4 and flv containers.

: --**container-mapping** mapping
Container mapping: default, d10, rdd9.

: --**container-version** version
Container version: qt6, qt7. This option is only valid for mov with the omneon muxer.

: --**video-codec** codec
Video codec: mpeg2video, imx, xdcamhd, dnxhd, simple_h264, prores.

: --**video-bitrate** bitrate
Video bitrate in kbit/s.

: --**video-pix-fmt** pix_fmt
Video pixel format: yuv411p, yuv420p, yuv422p, yuv422p10le.

: --**video-letterbox**
Enable video letterboxing. This option override video_aspect_ratio and should only be valid for 16/9 SD content.

: --**video-aspect-ratio** aspect_ratio
Video aspect ratio: default, 4:3, 16:9, ...

: --**video-gop-size** gop_size
Video gop size: 12, 15, ... This option is only valid for the mpeg2video and xdcamhd codecs.

: --**video-closed-gop**
Force closed gop. This option is only valid for the mpeg2video and xdcamhd codecs.

: --**video-interlaced** interlaced
Enable interlaced mode: 0, 1.

: --**video-resolution** resolution
Force ouput resolution. This option is only valid for the simple_h264 codec.

: --**video-burn**
Enable text and timecode burning.

: --**video-burn-box**
Add a black background.

: --**video-burn-text** text
Burn specified text.

: --**video-burn-date**
Add the date to the burned text.

: --**video-burn-hostname**
Add the hostname to the burned text.

: --**video-burn-timecode**
Enable timecode burning.

: --**video-burn-position** position
Burning position: center, top-left, top-center, top-right, bottom-left, [...], <x>x<y> (eg. '1337x42').

: --**video-burn-fontsize** fontsize
Burn font size.

: --**video-burn-fontname** fontname
Burn font name: dejavu, vera (same as dejavu), liberation, arial (same as liberation).

: --**video-burn-padding** padding
Burn padding in pixel: 10, ...

: --**audio-codec** codec
Audio codec: pcm, aac.

: --**audio-bitrate** bitrate
Audio bitrate in kbit/s.

: --**audio-format** format
Audio format for pcm codecs: s16le, s16be, s24le, ...

: --**audio-sample-rate** sample_rate
Audio sample rate: 44100, 48000, 96000, ...

: --**audio-min-streams** min_streams
List of audio min streams to align to: '2, 4, 8', '4, 8', ...

: --**audio-channels-per-stream** channels
Audio channels per streams: 0, 1, 2, ...

: --**muxer** muxer
Muxing library to use: ffmpeg, omneon, bmx.

: --**decoding-threads**
How many threads should be used to decode.

: --**encoding-threads**
How many threads should be used to encode.


= EXAMPLES =

: **imx50/mxf pcm @ 24bit muxed by bmx**
toolbox2-transcode --video-codec imx --video-bitrate 50000 --container mxf --container-mapping d10 --audio-format s24le --muxer bmx input.mxf


: **dnxhd/mxf 220mbp 1920x1080i 29.97fps 10bit pcm @ 24bit muxed by ffmpeg**
toolbox2-transcode --video-codec dnxhd --video-bitrate 220000 --video-pix-fmt yuv422p10le --container mxf --audio-format s24le input.mov


= AUTHOR =

The toolbox2 transcode module and this manual page have been written by the
**SmartJog** company.
